#summary A list of known scientific publications where reMIND has been used for modelling.
#labels Featured

= Introduction =

_The publication list is not yet all up to date_

The publication list of reMIND has different purposes and one is to help the user of the software to easy find information on how to use the software. The list is divided into two main parts: (1) tables consisting of information for each publication regarding e.g. the name of the modeler and the branch of business that has been studied and (2) lists of the publications. Before the code for the reMIND software was written a Fortran based code was used. Therefore, the first publications in the list are based on the use of the fortran based software, while the rest of the publications are based on the reMIND software, which is JAVA-based. The list was originally compiled by Magnus Karlsson (Linköping University, Sweden) but is now updated by the group responsible for release and development handling for reMIND, based on information from the users of the software.

=How to include new publications=
If you are a user of reMIND and have used the software as basis in a scientific publication, report or other relevant publication, please use the space "Enter a comment" to notify the group responsible for release an development handling for reMIND. Look at the tables and the reference list the information needed to be included in the comments.

=Publications in tables=

==MIND (fortran code)==
|| *Branch of business* || *Company* || *Model operator* || *Publications/Reports* ||
||_N/A_||_N/A_||_N/A_||Söderström and Nilsson, 1988||
||Mechanical engineering industry||Brukens Härdtjänster, Anderstorp||Katarina Nilsson||Nilsson, Söderström and Karlsson, 1989||
||Pulp and paper industry||_N/A_||Katarina Nilsson||Nilsson and Söderström, 1992||
||Dairy||_N/A_||Katarina Nilsson||Nilsson and Söderström, 1993||
||Mechanical engineering industry||_N/A_||Katarina Nilsson||Nilsson and Söderström, 1993||
||_N/A_||_N/A_||Katarina Nilsson||Nilsson, 1993||
||Refinery||_N/A_||Katarina Nilsson||Nilsson and Sundén, 1993||
||Refinery||_N/A_||Katarina Nilsson||Nilsson, Söderström and Karlsson, 1994||

==MIND (JAVA code)==
|| *Branch of business* || *Company* || *Model operator* || *Publications/Reports* ||
||Steel industry||SSAB, Luleå||Mikael Larsson||Larsson and Dahl, 2003||
||Steel industry||SSAB, Luleå||Peter Sandberg, Mikael Larsson||Larsson and Sandberg, 2003; Larsson, Sandberg, Dahl, Söderström and Vourinen, 2004; Sandberg and Larsson, 2004; Sandberg, Larsson, Dahl, Söderström and Vourinen, 2004||
||Steel industry||SSAB, Luleå||Mikael Larsson||Ryman, Larsson, Niemi, and Grip, 2004; Larsson, Dahl and Grip, 2004; Larsson and Dahl, 2004||



=Publications in lists=

==Publications/reports based totally or partly on models built in the analysis tool MIND/reMIND (also found in the tables above)==

 # Bengtsson, C. and Karlsson, M., Co-operation of the MIND-method and the Pinch Technology: Energy Efficient Pre-evaporation of Bleach Plant Filtrate Using Waste Heat, Arbetsnotat 4, Program Energisystem, IKP, Linköping University, 1999.
 # Bengtsson, C., Karlsson, M., Berntsson, T. and Söderström, M., Co-ordination of Pinch Technology and the MIND method – applied to a Swedish board mill, Applied Thermal Engineering 22 (2): 133-144, Pergamon Press, 2002a. 
 # Bengtsson, C., Karlsson, M., Berntsson, T. and Söderström, M., Cost-efficient CO2-reduction in the pulp and paper industry - a case study, In Proceedings of the 1st International Conference on Sustainable Energy Technologies, Porto, Portugal, 12-14 June 2002b.
 # Bergman, L., Larsson, M., Wikström, J-O., Ökvist, L., Zuo, G. and Jansson, B., Oxygen blast furnace process for Swedish conditions, Scanmet - 3rd International Conference on Process Development in Iron and Steelmaking, June 8-11, 2008, Luleå, Sweden, 2008.
 # Brissman Ivarsson, D., Gersér, F., Energisystemanalys av Fredriksons Verkstads AB i Vadstena, LiTH-IKP-Ing-Ex--04/14--SE (Examensarbete), 2004.
 # Dag, S., Björk, C. and Karlsson, P., Modell för kostnadseffektiv samverkan mellan Göteborg energi och Volvo PV, rapport, 1996.
 # Dag, S., Volvo Faces a Deregulated European Electricity Market, Linköping Studies in Science and Technology, Dissertation No. 663, Linköping University, Linköping, Sweden, 2000.
 # Difs, K., Wetterlund, E., Trygg, L., Söderström, M., Biomass gasification opportunities in a district heating system, submitted for publication in Biomass & Bioenergy, 2008.
 # Gong, M., Optimization of Industrial Process by Introducing Feedback Loops into MIND Method, Energy - The International Journal, Vol 28, No 15, pp.1655-1669, 2003. 
 # Gong M., Karlsson M., Coordination of exergy analysis and the MIND method - applied to a pulp and board mill, International Journal of Exergy, Vol. 1, No. 3, pp. 289-302, Wiley, 2004.
 # Heidari Tari, M. and Söderström M., Optimisation Modelling of Industrial Energy Systems Using MIND – Introducing the effect of material storage, International Journal of Operational Research, Vol. 142, No. 2, pp. 419-433, 2002a. 
 # Heidari Tari, M. and Söderström M., Modeling of Thermal Energy Storage in Industrial Energy Systems – The method development of MIND, Applied Thermal Engineering, Vol. 22, No. 11, pp. 1195-1205, 2002b. 
 # Heidari Tari, M., Larsson, M., Söderström M. and Dahl, J., Improvement of Energy Usage and Environmental Impacts in a Steel Plant, The 85th Steelmaking Conference Proceedings, USA, 2002.
 # Heidari Tari, M., Modeling Batch Processes in Industrial Energy Systems Using MIND, Submitted to Energy – The International Journal, 2002a.
 # Heidari Tari, M., Energy Efficiency in Industrial Systems – On Benefits of Using Optimisation Models, Submitted to International Journal of General Systems, 2002b.
 # Jönsson, J., Svensson, I., Berntsson, T., Moshfegh, B., Excess Heat from Chemical Pulp Mills: Trade-offs between Internal and External Use in the Case of Sweden – Part 2: Results, Energy Policy, Vol. 36, No. 11, pp 4186-4197, 2008.
 # Jönsson, J., Algehed, J., Economic trade-offs between internal and external use of excess heat from kraft pulp mills in Sweden, ECOS, Krakow, 2008.
 # Karlsson, M., internal reports, 1999 and 2001.
 # Karlsson, M. and Söderström M., Sensitivity analysis of investments in the pulp and paper industry - on investments in the chemical recovery cycle at a board mill, International Journal of Energy Research 26 (14): 1253-1267, Wiley, 2002.
 # Karlsson, M. and Carlson, A., Increasing the use of wood fuel in a pulp and paper mill – investment opportunity and external costs, In Proceedings of the 10th Biennal Bioenergy Conference, Boise, Idaho, USA, 22-26 September 2002.
 # Karlsson, M., A pulp and paper mill in the deregulated electricity market – strategies for electricity production, Submitted to Energy Conversion and Management, Elsevier, 2002.
 # Karlsson, M., A systems approach to the reduction of oil demand in a Swedish board mill, Energy – The International Journal 29 (1): 103-124, Elsevier, 2004.
 # Karlsson, M., Rohdin, P., Karlsson, F. and Moshfegh, B., Energikonsekvenser av strukturerat energieffektivitetstänkande för Arla Foods (EKSET) – slutrapport, LiTH-IKP-R-1364, Linköpings Universitet, 2005.
 # Karlsson, M., Modellering av Sandvik AB värmesystem tillsammans med SEAB, LIU-IEI-R-07/0014--SE, Linköpings Universitet, 2007 
 # Karlsson, M., Wolf, A., Using an optimization model to evaluate the economic benefits of industrial symbiosis in the forest industry. Journal of Cleaner Production, Vol. 16, Nr. 14, pp 1536-1544, Elsevier, 2008.
 # Kinnunen, K., Wang, C., Larsson, M. and Perander J., Factory scale energy optimisation of coke oven gas production at Raahe Steelworks, Scanmet - 3rd International Conference on Process Development in Iron and Steelmaking, June 8-11, 2008, Luleå, Sweden, 2008.
 # Klugman, S., Karlsson, M., Moshfegh, B., Modeling an industrial energy system: perspectives on regional heat cooperation, The International Journal of Energy Research, Vol. 32, Nr. 9, pp 793-807, Wiley, 2008.
 # Klugman, S., Karlsson, M., Moshfegh, B., A Swedish integrated pulp and paper mill - Energy optimisation and local heat cooperation, Energy Policy, Vol. 37, Nr. 7, pp 2514-2524, 2009.
 # Kronman, J., Energikartläggning och modellering av Arla Foods anläggning i Göteborg, LiTH-IKP-R-1333 (Projektarbete), 2004.
 # Larsson, M. and Dahl, Reduction of the specific energy use in an integrated steel plant – The effect of an optimisation model, ISIJ International, Vol. 43, No. 10, pp. 1664-1673, 2003.
 # Larsson, M. and Sandberg, P., Analysing the Influence of Variations when Optimising the Energy and Material System for an Integrated Steel Plant, Proceedings of the 4th International Conference on Fluid and Thermal Energy Conversion, FTEC 2003, December 7-11 2003, Bali, Indonesia, 2003.
 # Larsson, M., Sandberg, P., Dahl, J., Söderström, M., Vourinen, H., System gains of widening the system boundaries - renovation of the coke oven battery at an integrated steel plant, International Journal of Energy Research, Vol. 28, No. 12, pp. 1051-1064, 2004.
 # Larsson, M., Dahl, J. and Grip, C-E, Process integration in the steel industry, Proceedings of the 2nd International Conference on New Developments in Metallurgical Process Technology, 19-21 September 2004 - Riva del Garda, Italy, 2004.
 # Larsson, M. and Dahl, J., Development of an integrated method for analysing energy, environmental and economic efficiency for an integrated steel plant, , Proceedings of the 7th Conference on Process Integration, Modelling and Optimisation for Energy Saving and Pollution Reduction, 22-26 August 2004, Prague – Czech Republic, 2004.
 # Larsson, M., Wang, C., Dahl, J., Wedholm, C., Samuelsson, M., Magnusson, H-O, Lampinen, F., Su, F. and Grip, C-E, Improved energy and material efficiency using new tools for global optimisation of residue material flows, Scanmet II, Proceedings of the 2nd International Conference on Process Development in Iron and Steelmaking, 6-9 June, Luleå, Sweden, 2004.
 # Nilsson, K., Söderström, M. and Karlsson B.G., Non linear relationships in industrial energy systems analysis, European Simulation Multiconference, Rome, Italy, June 7-9, 1989.
 # Nilsson, K. and Söderström, M., Optimizing the Operating Strategy of A Pulp and Paper Mill using the MIND Method, Energy – The International Journal, Vol. 17, No. 10, pp. 945-953, 1992.
 # Nilsson, K. and Söderström, M., Industrial Applications of Production Planning with Optimal Electricity Demand, Applied Energy, Vol. 46, No. 2, pp. 181-192, 1993.
 # Nilsson, K., Industrial Production Planning with Optimal Electricity Cost, Energy Conversion and Management, Vol. 34, No. 3, pp. 153-158, 1993.
 # Nilsson, K., Söderström, M. and Karlsson, B., MIND optimization reduces the total cost at a refinery, Energy, Vol. 19, No. 1, pp. 45-54, 1994.
 # Nilsson, K. and Sundén, B., Optimizing a refinery using the pinch technology and the mind method, Heat Recovery Systems and CHP, Vol. 14, No. 2, pp. 211-220, 1993.
 # Ryman, C., Larsson, M., Niemi, T. and Grip, C-E, Modelling of the blast furnace process with a view to optimise the steel plant energy system, Proceedings in 2nd International Conference on New Developments in Metallurgical Process Technology, 19-21 September 2004 – Riva del Garda, Italy, 2004.
 # Ryman, C. and Larsson, M., Reduction of CO2 emissions from integrated steel-making by optimised scrap strategies: Application of process integration models on the BF-BOF system, ISIJ International, vol 46, 12, 1752-1758, 2006.
 # Ryman, C., Grip, C-E. and Larsson, M., Model based evaluation of sustainability indicators in integrated steelmaking: A Swedish case study, AISTech 2007, The Iron & Steel Technology Conference and Exposition, May 7-10, 2007, Indianapolis, Ind., USA, 2007.
 # Ryman, C. and Larsson M., Adaptation of process integration models for minimisation of energy use, CO2-emissions and raw material costs for integrated steelmaking, Chemical Engineering Transactions, vol. 12, 495-500, 2007. 
 # Ryman, C., Viktröm, L., Larsson, M. and Rutqvist, S., Optimisation of sustainability in integrated steelmaking, PRES2008 – 11th Conference on Process Integration, Modelling and Optimisation for Energy Saving and Pollution Reduction, 24-28 August 2008, Prague, Czech Republic, 2008.
 # Sandberg, P. and Larsson, M., Analysing the costs, energy use and environmental performance at an integrated steel plant through using a multi-objective approach, [Submitting 2004-08-30] Energy, 2004.
 # Sandberg, P., Larsson, M., Dahl, J., Söderström, M. and Vourinen, H., In search of Stability – investigating flexible and stable production strategies for an optimised steel plant, Scanmet II, Proceedings of the 2nd International Conference on Process Development in Iron and Steelmaking, 6-9 June, Luleå, Sweden, 2004.
 # Svensson, I., Moshfegh, B., Absorption cooling – An analysis of the competition between industrial excess heat, waste incineration, bio-fuelled CHP and NGCC, ECOS, Krakow, 2008. 
 # Svensson, I., Jönsson, J., Berntsson, T., Moshfegh, B., Excess Heat from Chemical Pulp Mills: Trade-offs between Internal and External Use in the Case of Sweden – Part 1: Methodology. Energy Policy, Vol. 36, No. 11, pp 4178-4185, 2008.
 # Söderström, M. and Nilsson, K., Simulation and life cycle cost optimization of industrial energy supply and energy use, User 1 Conference, Ostende, Belgium, September 6-8, pp. 77-82, 1988.
 # Söderström, M., Energikartläggning och modellering av Arla Foods mejeri i Linköping, LiTH-IKP-Ex-2119 (Examensarbete), 2004.
 # Thollander, P., Mardan, N., Karlsson, M., Optimization as investment decision support in a Swedish medium-sized iron foundry – a move beyond traditional energy auditing, Vol. 86, Nr. 4, pp 433-440, Elsevier, 2009.
 # Wang, C., Ryman, C. and Dahl, Potential CO2 emission reduction for BF-BOF steelmaking based on optimised use of ferrous burden materials,	International Journal of Greenhouse Gas Control, Doi:10.1016/j.ijggc.2008.06.005, 2008.
 # Wang, C., Ryman, C., Larsson, M., Wikström, J-O. and Grip, C-E, A model on CO2 emission reduction in integrated steelmaking by optimization methods, 3rd International Green Energy Conference, June 18-20, 2007, Västerås, Sweden, 2007.
 # Wang, C., Larsson, M., Ryman, C., Grip, C-E., Wikström, J-O., Johnsson, A. and Engdahl, J., A model on CO2 emission reduction in integrated steelmaking by optimization methods, International Journal of Energy Research. In Press, 2008.
 # Wetterlund, E., Difs, K. and Söderström, M. Energy polocoes affecting biomass gasification applications in district heating systems,  The First International Conference on Applied Energy (ICAE09), 5-7 January 2009, Hong Kong, 2009.
 # Wolf, A., Karlsson, M., Evaluating the environmental benefits of Industrial Symbiosis - Discussion and demonstration of an approach. Progress in Industrial Ecology - An International Journal, Vol. 5, Nr. 5-6, pp 502-517, Inderscience Enterprises Ltd, 2008.

==Other publications, related to the MIND method==

 # Gong, M., Karlsson, M. and Söderström, M., Industry and the energy market – optimal choice of measures using the MIND method, In Proceedings of the CRIS (International Institute for Critical Infrastructures) conference on ‘Power Systems and Communications Infrastructures for the future’, Bejing, China, 23-27 September 2002.
 # Gong, M., Using Exergy and Otimization Models to Improve Industrial Energy Systems Towards Sustainability, Linköping Studies in Science and Technology, Dissertation No. 868, ISBN 91-7373-933-2, Linköping University, Linköping, Sweden, 2004.
Heidari Tari, M., MIND – A decision making tool, presented in Energiting, http://www.stem.se/energiting2001, Föredrag No. 19, 2001.
 # Heidari Tari, M., On Optimization Modeling of Industrial Energy Systems at plant level - Development of the decision-making tool "MIND", Linköping Studies in Science and Technology, Dissertation No. 777, Linköping University, Linköping, Sweden, 2002.
 # Karlsson, M., Analysing Strategic Energy-Related Investments in Process Industries – Applied Studies at a Pulp and Board Mill, Linköping Studies in Science and Technology, Dissertation No. 791, ISBN 91-7373-476-4, Linköping University, Linköping, Sweden, 2002.
 # Karlsson, M., Sandberg, P., The MIND method: a decision support system based on MILP, submitted for publication in Decision support systems, 2004.
 # Klugman, S., Energy systems analysis of Swdish pulp and paper industries from a regional cooperation perspective – case study modeling and optimization, Linköping Studies in Science and Technology, Dissertation No. 1194, ISBN 978-91-7393-874-7, Linköping University, Linköping, Sweden, 2008.
 # Larsson, M., Analysis and Optimisation of Energy and Enviromental Performance of an Integrated Steel Plant by Process Integration, Licentiate of Engineering Thesis No. 2003:16, LTU-LIC--03/16--SE, Luleå University of Technology, Sweden, 2003.
 # Larsson, M., Process Integration in the Steel Industry – Possibilities to Analyse Energy Use and Environmental Impacts for an Integrated Steel Mill, Doctoral Thesis 2004:63, LTU-DT--04/63--SE, Luleå University of Technology, Sweden, 2004.
 # Nilsson, K., MIND - Optimization method for industrial energy systems, Licentiate of Engineering Thesis No. 218, LiU-TEK-LIC-1990:18, Linköping Institute of Technology, Sweden, 1990.
 # Nilsson, K. and Sundén, B., A Combined Method for the Thermal and Structural Design of Industrial Energy Systems, Recent Advances in Heat Transfer, Elsevier, 1992.
 # Nilsson K., Cost-Effective Industrial Energy Systems – Multiperiod Optimization of Operating Strategies and Structural Choices, Linköping Studies in Science and Technology, Dissertation No. 315, Linköping University, Linköping, Sweden, 1993.
 # Ryman, C., On the use of Process Integration Methods – Evaluation of Energy and CO2 emissions Strategies in Blast Furnace Ironmaking and Oxygen Steelmaking, Licentiate of Engineering Thesis No. 2007:63, LTU-LIC--07/63--SE, Luleå University of Technology, Sweden, 2007.
 # Ryman, C., Karlsson, M., Grip C-E., The MIND method for analysis of resource efficiency in industrial systems for materials production, Presented at the 2nd International Seminar on Society & Materials (SAM2), Nantes, France, 2008.
 # Sandberg, P., Optimisation and Co-operative Perspectives on Industrial Energy Systems, Linköping Studies in Science and Technology, Dissertation No. 913, ISBN 91-85295-95-7, Linköping University, Linköping, Sweden, 2004.
 # Wolf, A., Industrial symbiosis – in the Swedish forest industry, Linköping Studies in Science and Technology, Dissertation No. 1133, ISBN 978-91-85895-86-1, Linköping University, Linköping, Sweden, 2007.